# Home
The Monterey Peninsula College website is only as powerful as the organization and quality of its content. And we know as a content creator, it can be challenging to know where to start and what to focus on.

Here you’ll find all the tools and resources you need to:
-   Understand content workflow
-   Identify the primary audience you're speaking to
-   Determine if you need a new page
-   Pick the correct page template
-   Write quality, on-brand content
-   Choose images that engage your audience

## What do you need help with the most? 
Check out the following questions and choose the resource that most closely matches your query. You can also come back here to check out another resource if you don’t find the answer you’re looking for.

**Who manages the website?**<br>
[Web Governance Charter](2.Governance/1.web-governance-charter.md)<br>
Web governance refers to people, policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines that govern the creation and maintenance of the Monterey Peninsula College official website and digital properties. 

**How do I get added to the website? What will I be able to do as a user?**<br>
[Roles, Permissions, Training](2.Governance/2.permissions.md)<br>
We’re going to clarify the processes for becoming a user, roles and responsibilities, training, troubleshooting, and page maintenance reminders.

**How do I make sure my content does not break accessibility guidelines?**<br>
[Accessibility Guidelines](1.accessibility.md)<br>
We’re going to help you create pages and provide resources that maintain the accessibility standards for the MPC website.

**How do I identify a page’s goal and audience?**<br>
[Goal & Audience Worksheet](<4.User Experience/1.goal-audience.md>)<br>
Whether you’re creating a new page or editing an existing one, this worksheet can help establish why this page exists, and who this page is for. Taking this step before writing & editing will allow you to holistically understand the needs of this page and create content accordingly.

**How do I know when to add a new page or edit site structure?**<br>
[Page Creation & Site Structure Guidelines](<4.User Experience/2.page-creation.md>)<br>
We’re going to define when it’s okay to make a new page and when content should be added to already existing pages. We will also provide some guidelines to follow around keeping the site structured appropriately.

**How do I create a page?**<br>
[Page Templates](<4.User Experience/3.page-templates.md>)<br>
We’re going to outline some page structure ideas in templates for you to use when creating pages, based on the content you have. Grab a layout you like and recreate in the CMS with the recommended components.

**How do I choose components for the page I’m building?**<br>
[Components Library](<4.User Experience/4.component-library.md>)<br>
We will outline the different kinds of components available on the new site, and how they can be used. Use this library to help decide what patterns to use after you’ve chosen a page template.

**How do I write page content?**<br>
[Copywriting Resources & Examples](3.content/1.copywriting-resources.md)<br>
We’re going to point you to some resources that will help get your creative juices flowing. These will help you easily highlight what’s important to your audience in a way they will understand. We'll also provide some examples and explain how they connect to the resources we provide.<br>
[Search Engine Optimization](3.content/4.seo.md)<br>
We’ll help you understand SEO at a high-level, learn about your target audience perspectives, and illustrate SEO best practices to optimize your content and help users find the information.

**What is the MPC brand about, and how do I create content that aligns with it?**<br>
[Brand Guidelines](content/brand-guidelines)<br>
Learn more about the MPC brand and how to express it across the website.

**How do I choose quality photos and videos?**<br>
[Multimedia Guidelines](3.content/3.multimedia-guidelines.md)<br>
We have some resources that will help you create and find quality, on-brand photo and video selections that elevate the pages you’re creating.

**I’m seeing terms that I don’t understand the meaning of.**<br>
[Glossary & Terminology](<5.glossary.md>)<br>
We’re going to define the terminology that you will see throughout our documentation. This can be a handy guide to refer back to while acquainting yourself with the process of creating & managing content on the site.

## Have a different question? 
If you can’t find an answer to your question, please contact Marketing & Communications Department.

***

*This page was last updated on Jan. 16, 2024*