# Permissions, Training & Workflow
Learn  about your role and responsibilities with maintaining the website. Follow these processes for training, editing, adding a page, and submitting regular updates to your pages. 
## Roles & Permissions

The Marketing & Communications Team assigns roles in the content management system. Users fall into three categories of roles, with the following permissions:

### 1.  Contributor:
- Suggest editorial changes to content via the ticketing system
    
- Follows copywriting and user experience best practices prescribed in governance documents
    
- Cannot edit or publish to the site directly
    

### 2. Editor:
- Closely understands site goals & objective
- Works across a wider field of pages (i.e., Library)
- Follows copywriting and user experience best practices mentioned in governance documents
- Responsible for ensuring content is kept up to date on their pages
- Has editing authority on the website but cannot publish to the site directly
- Can request new pages and insert new patterns as needed to align department content with website goals
    

### 3.  Administrator:
- Members of core Marketing and Community Team
- Reviews and publishes content to align with sitewide goals (IE, marketing objectives), SEO optimization, accessibility, and final editorial review
- Reviews and approves editorial changes and page requests from Contributors and Editors
- Adds and edits content, snippets, and pages as needed
- Maintains overall quality control of content on website


## Training New Users

All roles are expected to review the training and governance materials to properly understand how to create and edit content in a way that maintains quality across the site.

### CMS Training:

-   The Director of Marketing and Communications is responsible for conducting initial training on the content management system (CMS). This training will cover how to technically add elements to pages and use the technology that the site is built on.
    

### Governance Documentation:

There are a number of other chapters in the Governance documentation that outline how to strategically leverage the CMS to meet the needs of departments and audience(s). These will answer important questions such as:
    

-   Do I need a new page? Can I add my new content to an existing page?
    
-   Which patterns should I use when making a page or adding to one?
    
-   How can I write in the MPC brand voice?
    
-   Is my content accessible?
    

The overall purpose is to arm content creators and contributors with the information they need to create engaging content.
    
**ALL users** are required to review these documents
    

## Editorial Workflow

Editorial workflows are the processes that determine who is responsible for what when creating or editing a page.

### Existing Page Workflow:

To update an existing page:

1.  The Contributor or Editor submits their proposed changes to their Administrator by filling out the **form**. All changes must follow the best practices as defined by the Governance.
    
2.  The Administrator reviews changes and works with the Contributor or Editor to ensure the content follows best practices as defined by the Governance.
    
3.  The administrator publishes the changes.
    

### New Page Workflow:

The Marketing & Communications Department reserves the right to reject new page requests and may suggest editing a current page instead of adding a new one. The process will go as follows:

1.  An Editor completes the Goal & Audience Worksheet and reads Page Creation & Site Structure Guidelines.
    
2.  The editor or publisher will fill out the **form**.
    
3.  An Administrator will review the form. If the request is approved, the Editor will work with their publisher to create a new page. If the request is denied, the Administrator will make a recommendation for where to put the content on an existing page.
    
4.  The new page is submitted to the Administrator for review.
    
5.  Once the content meets the requirements for the website, the Administrator will approve and publish the page.

## Page Maintenance Schedule

How can I ensure the content on a page is kept up to date? How often should we be checking in and make sure it’s useful to our audience?

### Regular Updates: Biannual Review

The frequency with which a page may have to be updated depends on the purpose of the page itself. Departments with many different deadlines and events (financial aid, departments that offer frequent workshops, etc.) will need to be checked and updated often to ensure old dates/events are not featured and users are clear. Contributors should work with their departments/offices to ensure these pages are kept up to date. Other pages will not need to be checked as frequently.

At a minimum, most pages should be checked before each semester to ensure no outdated content stays on the website for too long. There will be some pages where content remains untouched (policies, directions, etc.).

Editors will receive an email from the Marketing & Communications Team before the start of each semester reminding them to review their content.

***

*This page was last updated on Jan. 16, 2024*