# Goal & Audience Worksheet

Whether you’re creating a new page or editing an existing one, this worksheet can help establish why this page exists, and who this page is for. Taking this step before writing & editing will allow you to holistically understand the needs of this page and create content accordingly.

## What is the primary goal of the page?

It’s important to establish what this page and its content are hoping to accomplish.  **Look at the list of possible page goals below**. Pick out all the goals that apply to this page. You should have 3 goals or less.

 - [ ] Promote an event    
 - [ ] Share MPC news or announcements
 - [ ] Market an MPC offering 
 - [ ] Get people to take a particular action 
 - [ ] Draw traffic to an online resource 
 - [ ] Fundraising 
 - [ ] Tell a story about a member of the MPC community
 - [ ] Share policy or procedure information 
 - [ ] Highlight an MPC initiative 
 - [ ] Create a connection with alumni 
 - [ ] Share guides or step-by-step instructions 
 - [ ] Other:

## Ready to refine?

Great! Look back at the list of primary goals, and  **select your top 2 goals**. Rewrite the goals to be more specific to the content you are sharing. The more specific you are, the easier it will be to write & gather content that supports the page’s goals.

-   **Goal 1:**
-   **Goal 2:**

## How do I know if I'm successful in achieving the goals for this page?

We can help make our goals more measurable by defining the content that supports those goals and identifying success criteria for when we meet those goals. For each goal, identify the following:

-   **What content supports this goal?**  Look at the kind of content planned for this page. Does this content support the page’s goal? Does additional content need to be gathered?
-   **What is the goal’s purpose?**  Why is this goal important? What is the benefit be for perspective students?
-   **How is it measurable?**  Come up with quantifiable measurements for each goal.
-   **What defines success?**  Identify a benchmark for each measurement that will help to define when you are reaching your goal.

Using a copy of the table below, refine your goals & make them measurable.

|  |What content supports this goal?| What is the goal’s purpose? | How is it measurable? | What defines success? |
|--|--|--|--|--|
| **Goal 1** | | | | |
| **Goal 2** | | | | |

## Who is my audience?

It’s important to define who we are writing & creating content for. Typically,  **there are two levels of audiences: primary audiences and secondary audiences**. Primary audiences consist of people who you must reach, while secondary audiences consist of people who you may like to reach. While there can be a lot of overlap, selecting a primary one will help focus the writing & content gathering process. Note that internal-focused content belongs on the intranet, NOT the main MPC site.  
  
Here are some examples of audiences:

-   High school students
-   Adult learners
-   Parents
-   High school counselors
-   Current students
-   Community members
-   Employers
-   Faculty or staff members
-   Alumni

Define your primary and secondary audiences before beginning content writing and page creation.

-   **Primary audiences**:
-   **Secondary audiences**:

***

*This page was last updated on Jan. 16, 2024*