# Page Creation & Site Structure Guidelines
Adding content to the website should be a strategic decision. Does the new content need it's own page or can it be added to an already existing page? If it needs it's own page, where will the content live? Where does it fit and where will users logically look for the information? We'll help you answer these questions and provide guidelines to follow.

## Planning to Add a New Page
Before creating a page, answer these questions, thinking about your content and the section in which you would be adding this content:

**Is it marketing content?**<br>
If yes, it should be incorporated as a new section on an already existing page. If the section begins to get too long when all information is added to it, then a new page can be added instead.

**Is it task-focused content?**<br>
If yes, a new page can be created to house this information. Consider adding a section to the parent page that links to this new page.

**Is it featuring a specific news story or event?**<br>
If yes, feature this content on an already existing page using news/events display types.

**Do you know who will be maintaining this content?**<br>
If no, a new page should not be created if no one will be maintaining & updating this content.
    
**Is there a landing page that can “house” this content?**<br>
If yes, think about whether this landing page could fit another display type to feature this content.
If no, consider if this new page should serve as a landing page for related content in the future.

## Site Structure Guidelines
When thinking about adding a new page, consider these guidelines:

1.  **Keep interior navigation lean.**  When a page lives in a web of sibling pages & child pages, the navigation experience can get confusing for users.
2.  **Group related pages together.**  Use parent pages to structurally group multiple pages with related content. Make sure there is a link from the parent page to the new content to help users find the new information.
3.  **Combine identical information from different pages together onto one page.**  This will make it easier to update content in only one place when things change.
4.  **Avoid creating one-off pages that will only be relevant once.**  These pages are often forgotten and left outdated on the site.
5.  **No dedicated FAQ pages.**  Instead, incorporate answers to common questions as content on relevant pages.
6.  **No dedicated news & events pages.**  Instead, use news or events display types to feature this content on already existing pages.
7.  **No dedicated “About Us” or "Contact" pages.**  Instead, incorporate this content throughout already existing pages.

***

*This page was last updated on Jan. 16, 2024*