# Branding Guidelines
Learn more about the MPC brand and how to express it across the website.

## What is a brand?

*“A brand is the identity and story of a company that makes it stand out from competitors that sell similar products or services. The goal of branding is to earn space in the minds of the target audience and become their preferred option for doing business.”* - Hubspot

Whether you realize it or not, your school is a brand. You have a unique story and a unique experience to “sell” to students and your website should represent this. From open houses and campus tours to emails, social media, and your website, everyone should know your brand and understand their role in maintaining the brand values. If you boast a “friendly, welcoming environment,” on campus then you want everyone from the professors to the administrators to the cleaning staff to feel and show that too. Your digital content, including the website, should operate the same way.

Current high school students, first-gen students, and adult students alike rank the website as the most used and most helpful information source they use during their search process (RNL, [E-Expectations Trend Report](https://learn.ruffalonl.com/rs/395-EOG-977/images/2023_E-Expectations_Report.pdf?_gl=1*vdg826*_ga*MTQ1MTk1NDMyNC4xNjk5Mzg0NDcz*_ga_LJVH05YF0P*MTY5OTM4NDQ3My4xLjEuMTY5OTM4NDY3MC41OS4wLjA)). Therefore, it is critical that your website leverages your brand and the experience that students will have at your school, so take the time to get to know your brand and what you have to offer that sets you apart from other schools. Then, be sure to implement that experience into your web content.

  

## What is the MPC brand?

MPC's brand centers around our students and our goals for them. We care about our students hopes, dreams, and aspirations, and we are committed to supporting their journey as they reach them. Our faculty, staff, and support programs are what make us unique. We live in Monterey County. Our children attend MPC. We've attended MPC. We are proud Lobos. 

For MPC’s brand identity to succeed, the visual and language guidelines need to be expressed clearly and consistently across all materials, platforms, and channels.

### Mission Statement

This external statement is a clear reflection of who we are and what we do.

*Monterey Peninsula College is actively committed to student access and success and to fostering an equitable, inclusive, respectful, and supportive community by providing excellent academic programs and student services that respond to the needs of our richly diverse region. The College welcomes all students seeking to enrich their lives, advance their careers, complete certificates, earn associate degrees, and transfer to continue their education.*

### Positioning Statement

This is an internal facing statement that defines who we are as a brand and how we want to engage with our audiences.

 *Monterey Peninsula College is an open-access institution that fosters student learning and achievement within its diverse community. MPC provides high-quality instructional programs, services, and infrastructure to support the goals of students pursuing transfer, career training, basic skills, and lifelong learning opportunities.*

  

## How do I put the brand into action?

Focus on a few concepts. We call them Brand Values. They are essential features that we want our audiences to associate with MPC, and elaborate on the Positioning Statement and Mission Statement described above.

By focusing on these Brand Values (not all necessarily at the same time!), you are reinforcing foundational elements of the MPC brand. Every page should have some element of these brand values. Content — written and visual — should reflect these on a macro and micro level. Not just which words are we using or who is in these images. But how does the story we are telling across the website align with these values? Brand values don’t need to be said outright but consider how you can add brand value to your text, imagery, and display when writing or editing a page.

 1. Excellent Education
 2. Completion Culture
 3. Innovative Environment
 4. Campus Community

### Value #1: Excellent Education

We provide programs and services that meet student and community needs.
  

### VALUE #2: Completion Culture

We provide programs, resources, and services that empower students to achieve their educational goals.



### VALUE #3: Innovative Environment

We provide state-of-the-art and sustainable learning environments, technology, and facilities to support student success.



### VALUE #4: Campus Community

We foster an organizational culture that supports collaboration, professional growth, and leadership development.

***

*This page was last updated on Jan. 16, 2024*